docs/topics/spam_checker.rst, before:

============
Spam Checker
============

.. module:: zinnia.spam_checker

.. versionadded:: 0.9

Spam protection is mandatory when you want to let your users to comment
your entries.

Originally Zinnia provided a only one type of spam protection with the
support of Akismet.

One it's not bad, but it's not enough, because depend of a third-party
service may be a little bit risky.

Now Akismet has been moved in a dedicated module and the moderation system
let you choose the spam checkers to use. With this new feature you can now
write a custom spam checker corresponding to your needs and use it for
moderation your comments.

We can imagine for example that you want to authorize comments from
a white-list of IPs, it's possible by writing a backend.

.. note:: You can use multiple backends for checking the content, because
          they are chained, useful for a maximum protection.

Configuration example: ::

  ZINNIA_SPAM_CHECKER_BACKENDS = (
      'path.to.your.spam.checker.module',
      'path.to.your.other.spam.checker.module',
  )

.. seealso:: :setting:`ZINNIA_SPAM_CHECKER_BACKENDS`

.. _builtin-spam-checkers:

Built-in spam checkers
======================

- :mod:`zinnia.spam_checker.backends.all_is_spam`
- :mod:`zinnia.spam_checker.backends.long_enough`

.. _writing-spam-checker:

Writing your own spam checker backend
=====================================

Writing a backend for using a custom spam checker is simple as
possible, you only needs to follows 4 rules.

#. In a new Python file write a function named **backend** taking in
   parameter : ``content`` the text to verify, ``content_object`` the object
   related to the text and ``request`` the current request.

#. The **backend** function should returns ``True`` if ``content`` is spam
   and ``False`` otherwhise.

#. If the **backend** requires initial configuration you must raise an
   :exc:`~django.core.exceptions.ImproperlyConfigured` exception if
   the configuration is not valid. The error will be displayed in the console.

#. Register your backend to be used in your project with this setting: ::

    ZINNIA_SPAM_CHECKER_BACKENDS = ('path.to.your.spam.checker.module',)

For a more examples take a look in this folder : :file:`zinnia/spam_checker/backends/`.

Commit message:

Add note about spam checking on linkbacks, close #366

docs/topics/spam_checker.rst, after:

============
Spam Checker
============

.. module:: zinnia.spam_checker

.. versionadded:: 0.9

Spam protection is mandatory when you want to let your users react on
your entries.

Originally Zinnia provided a only one type of spam protection with the
support of Akismet.

One it's not bad, but it's not enough, because depend of a third-party
service may be a little bit risky.

Now Akismet has been moved in a dedicated module and the moderation system
let you choose the spam checkers to use. With this new feature you can now
write a custom spam checker corresponding to your needs and use it for
moderating your comments, trackbacks and linkbacks.

We can imagine for example that you want to authorize comments from
a white-list of IPs, it's possible by writing a backend.

.. note:: You can use multiple backends for checking the content, because
          they are chained, useful for a maximum protection.

Configuration example: ::

  ZINNIA_SPAM_CHECKER_BACKENDS = (
      'path.to.your.spam.checker.module',
      'path.to.your.other.spam.checker.module',
  )

.. seealso:: :setting:`ZINNIA_SPAM_CHECKER_BACKENDS`

.. versionchanged:: 0.19

The spam protection now also apply on incoming trackbacks and linkbacks.

.. _builtin-spam-checkers:

Built-in spam checkers
======================

- :mod:`zinnia.spam_checker.backends.all_is_spam`
- :mod:`zinnia.spam_checker.backends.long_enough`

.. _writing-spam-checker:

Writing your own spam checker backend
=====================================

Writing a backend for using a custom spam checker is simple as
possible, you only needs to follows 4 rules.

#. In a new Python file write a function named **backend** taking in
   parameter : ``content`` the text to verify, ``content_object`` the object
   related to the text and ``request`` the current request.

#. The **backend** function should returns ``True`` if ``content`` is spam
   and ``False`` otherwhise.

#. If the **backend** requires initial configuration you must raise an
   :exc:`~django.core.exceptions.ImproperlyConfigured` exception if
   the configuration is not valid. The error will be displayed in the console.

#. Register your backend to be used in your project with this setting: ::

    ZINNIA_SPAM_CHECKER_BACKENDS = ('path.to.your.spam.checker.module',)

For a more examples take a look in this folder : :file:`zinnia/spam_checker/backends/`.
