docs/EXTENDING_ENTRY_MODEL.rst, before:

Extending Entry model
=====================

The Entry model bundled in Zinnia can now be extended and customized.

This feature is useful for who wants to add some fields in the model,
or change its behavior. It allows Zinnia to be a really generic
and reusable application.

Imagine that I find Zinnia really great, but that is misses some fields
or features to be the blog app that I need for my django project.
For example I need to add a custom field linking to an image gallery,
2 solutions :

  * I search for another django blogging app fitting my needs.
  * I make a monkey patch, but I won't be able to upgrade to future releases.

These 2 solutions are really bad, that's why Zinnia provides
a third solution.

  * Customizing the model noninvasively with the power of inheritance.

How do we do that ?

In fact, simply by creating an abstract model inherited from a
EntryBaseModel, adding fields or/and overriding his methods, and
registering it with the ZINNIA_ENTRY_BASE_MODEL setting in your project.

Example for adding the gallery field. ::

  >>> from django.db import models
  >>> from zinnia.models import EntryBaseModel
  >>> from galleryapp.models import Gallery
  >>>
  >>> class EntryGallery(EntryBaseModel):
  ...     gallery = models.ForeignKey(Gallery)
  ...
  ...     class Meta:
  ...         abtract = True
  ...

Now you register the EntryGallery model like this in your project's
settings.

  >>> ZINNIA_ENTRY_BASE_MODEL = 'galleryapp.zinnia.EntryGallery'

You can see another example in the zinnia/plugins/placeholder.py file.

But you have to note 3 important things :

  * Do not import the Entry model in your file defining the extended model
    because it will cause a circular importation.

  * Don't forget to tell that your model is abstract. Otherwise it will
    create the table and the extent will not work as expected.

  * If you extend the Entry model after the syncdb command, you will have
    to reset the Zinnia application to reflect your changes.

Commit message:

fixing doc for extending the Entry model

docs/EXTENDING_ENTRY_MODEL.rst, after:

Extending Entry model
=====================

The Entry model bundled in Zinnia can now be extended and customized.

This feature is useful for who wants to add some fields in the model,
or change its behavior. It allows Zinnia to be a really generic
and reusable application.

Imagine that I find Zinnia really great, but that is misses some fields
or features to be the blog app that I need for my django project.
For example I need to add a custom field linking to an image gallery,
2 solutions :

  * I search for another django blogging app fitting my needs.
  * I make a monkey patch, but I won't be able to upgrade to future releases.

These 2 solutions are really bad, that's why Zinnia provides
a third solution.

  * Customizing the model noninvasively with the power of inheritance.

How do we do that ?

In fact, simply by creating an abstract model inherited from
EntryBaseModel, adding fields or/and overriding his methods, and
registering it with the ZINNIA_ENTRY_BASE_MODEL setting in your project.

Example for adding a gallery field. ::

  >>> from django.db import models
  >>> from mygalleryapp.models import Gallery
  >>> from zinnia.models import EntryAbstractClass
  >>>
  >>> class EntryGallery(EntryAbstractClass):
  ...     gallery = models.ForeignKey(Gallery)
  ...
  ...     class Meta:
  ...         abstract = True
  ...

Now you register the EntryGallery model like this in your project's
settings.

  >>> ZINNIA_ENTRY_BASE_MODEL = 'full.path.to.EntryGallery'

You can see another example in the zinnia/plugins/placeholder.py file.

But you have to note 4 important things :

  * Do not import the Entry model in your file defining the extended model
    because it will cause a circular importation.

  * Do not put your abstract model in a file named models.py,
    it will not work for a non obvious reason.

  * Don't forget to tell that your model is abstract. Otherwise a table
    will be created and the extending process will not work as expected.

  * If you extend the Entry model after the syncdb command, you will have
    to reset the Zinnia application to reflect your changes.
